# Trial class - Programming advanced feedbacks with Arduino.
[slide-1]
Hi there, and welcome to this Interaction and electronics video class. I’m Lorenzo and I’ll be your teacher for this class.
The goal of this class is to learn how to program advanced feedback and light effects using Arduino.

[slide-2]
If you are taking this class, I assume that you already have some basic Arduino experience, you are able to make a LED blink, and you are able to read and write simple Arduino sketches.
If you don’t remember how to control a LED, or how to read a value from a button or an analog sensor, I highly recommend that you refresh your Arduino skills watching some Arduino tutorials for beginners.

[slide-3]
You can find some nice youtube video tutorials at this link.

[slide-4]
In this class we are going to focus on how to create nice and expressive feedback using the electronic components that you have in your IDE interactive Electronics kit.
We will try to go beyond the basic light pattern (green = good & red = bad), and design more expressive and beautiful feedback.
For example we will try to design animated light patterns which could be experienced as aggressive or kind, hectic or sleepy, regular or romantic.
Also we will learn how to read sensors and control actuators in an asynchronous way.
At the end of the course we will see how to go from sketching an interaction on paper, to programming it using “state machines”: a very handy programming paradigm which can be very helpful in structuring code for interactive products.

[slide-5]
All the exercises of this class are related to programming a very specific device. Together we will build and code a “pomodoro timer”. Which is handy device that people use to partition their worktime into chunks of tasks and breaks. Working in the pomodoro way helps you to stay focussed and healthy. Eventually you can also use it yourself to help you keep focus while studying.

[slide-6]
To help you to construct an embodiment for your pomodoro timer nice and ready to be placed on your desk I designed a paper box that you can fold togehter and assemble with components.
The box is designed to fit: your Seeeduino Lotus board, 1 pushbutton, 1 potentiometer, 1 servo motor, 1 buzzer and 1 chainable rgb led.
You can just fold it and use it, or you can customize the paper template that you find in your resources folder to your own specific needs.
Instructions on how to assemble the paper box can be found in the resources folder as well. Hope you like this little (pomodoro) box!!

[slide-7]
Ready to start?
Please download the resources folder from this link.

[slide-8]
Before moving to the next video, make sure you have the Arduino IDE Installed, if not, you can just download a new copy from the Arduino.cc website here.

Also make sure you have the pomodoro-timer box assembled with all the components inside.

Lastly, if this is the first time that you use the Seeeduino Lotus board on your computer, you will have to do a couple of things before being able to program it.
First of all you have to install some drivers for it. You can find the drivers and more instructions on how to setup the board at this link. Secondly make sure to add the Seeedstudio board definitions to your Arduino IDE. You can find instructions on how to do that also on the Seeedstudio wiki right here. Just follow the procedure described there to configure the board for your operating system and you will be ready to go.

Once you are ready, move on to the next video where we will check that everything works and we will start programming the pomodoro timer.
